---
order: 8
title: Deprecations
---

# Deprecations

This document collects the features that have been deprecated in Garden 0.14.

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE BELOW - AUTO-GENERATED -->
<!-- This section is auto-generated by `npm run generate-docs`. Any changes above these comments will be preserved. Make changes to deprecations in `deprecations.ts`. -->

# Old configuration syntax

<h2 id="hotreload"><code>hotReload</code> configuration field in modules</h2>

The module-level `hotReload` configuration field was removed in Garden 0.13 and has no effect. Please use actions with the `sync` mode instead.

See the [Code Synchronization Guide](../features/code-synchronization.md) for details.

<h2 id="hotreloadargs"><code>serviceResource.hotReloadArgs</code> configuration field in <code>kubernetes</code> modules</h2>

The `serviceResource.hotReload` configuration field in `kubernetes` modules was removed in Garden 0.13 and has no effect. Please use actions with the `sync` mode instead.

See the [Code Synchronization Guide](../features/code-synchronization.md) for details.

<h2 id="devmode"><code>spec.devMode</code> configuration field in actions</h2>

The `spec.devMode` configuration field in actions is deprecated in Garden 0.14. Please use `spec.sync` configuration field instead.

The old fields `spec.devMode` are automatically converted to `spec.sync` in Garden 0.14 when using `apiVersion: garden.io/v2` in the project-level configuration.

<h2 id="localmode"><code>spec.localMode</code> configuration field in <code>helm</code>, <code>kubernetes</code> and <code>container</code> Deploy actions</h2>

The local-mode feature was completely removed in 0.14, and the `spec.localMode` configuration syntax has no effect. Please remove all `spec.localMode` entries from your configuration files.

<h2 id="kubernetesprovidersyncresourcelimit"><code>resources.sync</code> config field in the <code>kubernetes</code> provider</h2>

The `resources.sync` config field in the `kubernetes` provider has no effect in Garden 0.13 and 0.14., Please remove it from your `kubernetes` provider configuration.

The `resources.sync` config field in the `kubernetes` provider was only used for the `cluster-docker` build mode, which was removed in Garden 0.13.",

<h2 id="kubernetespodspecfiles"><code>spec.files</code> configuration field in <code>kubernetes-pod</code> action type</h2>

The `spec.files` configuration field in `kubernetes-pod` action type has no effect. Please remove it and use `spec.manifestFiles` or `spec.manifestTemplates` instead.

See the reference documentation for details.

For the `Run` action kind see [`spec.manifestFiles`](../reference/action-types/Run/kubernetes-pod.md#spec.manifestfiles) and [`spec.manifestTemplates`](../reference/action-types/Run/kubernetes-pod.md#spec.manifesttemplates).
For the `Test` action kind see [`spec.manifestFiles`](../reference/action-types/Test/kubernetes-pod.md#spec.manifestfiles) and [`spec.manifestTemplates`](../reference/action-types/Test/kubernetes-pod.md#spec.manifesttemplates).

<h2 id="containerdeployactionlimits"><code>spec.limits</code> configuration field in <code>container</code> Deploy action</h2>

Please use the `cpu` and `memory` configuration fields instead.

Note! If the deprecated field [`spec.limits`](../reference/action-types/Deploy/container.md#spec.limits)
is defined in the `container` Deploy action config,
Garden 0.14 automatically copies the field's contents to the `spec.cpu` and `spec.memory`,
even if the latter are defined explicitly.

Please do not use both `spec.limits` and `spec.cpu` and/or `spec.memory` simultaneously,
and use only the latter pair of fields. Otherwise, the values from the old field `spec.limits` will be used.

See [`spec.cpu`](../reference/action-types/Deploy/container.md#spec.cpu)
and [`spec.memory`](../reference/action-types/Deploy/container.md#spec.memory) for the new syntax details.

<h2 id="workflowlimits"><code>limits</code> configuration field in workflows</h2>

Please use the `resources.limits` configuration field instead.

Note! If the deprecated field [`limits`](../reference/workflow-config.md#limits) is defined in the workflow config,
Garden 0.14 automatically copies the field's contents to the `resources.limits`,
even if the latter is defined explicitly.

Please do not use both `limits` and `resources.limits` simultaneously,
and use only `resources.limits`. Otherwise, the values from the old field `limits` will be used.

See [`resources.limits`](../reference/workflow-config.md#resources.limits) for the new syntax details.

# Unsupported commands

<h2 id="kubernetesplugincleanupclusterregistrycommand"><code>cleanup-cluster-registry</code></h2>

The `cleanup-cluster-registry` command in the `kubernetes` and `local-kubernetes` plugins is not supported in Garden 0.14. This command no longer has any effect as of version 0.13! Please remove this from any pipelines running it.

# Deprecated configuration

<h2 id="podselectorinsyncmode"><code>podSelector</code> configuration field in sync mode</h2>

The `podSelector` configuration field is deprecated and has no effect in `spec.sync.overrides[].target` and `spec.sync.paths[].target` configurations of `kubernetes` and `helm` Deploy actions. Please, use the combination of `kind` and `name` configuration fields instead.

Usage of the `podSelector` as a target sync resource can cause unpredicted behaviour, because such selector picks up the first matching Pod in the cluster.
Instead, a pair of `kind` and `name` should be used with one of the following kinds: `Deployment`, `DaemonSet` or `StatefulSet`.
Garden ensures that each kind of these resources has exactly 1 Pod when running in sync mode.

For `kubernetes` Deploy actions see [`spec.sync.overrides[].target`](../reference/action-types/Deploy/kubernetes#spec.sync.overrides-.target) and [`spec.sync.paths[].target`](../reference/action-types/Deploy/kubernetes#spec.sync.paths-.target).
For `helm` Deploy actions see [`spec.sync.overrides[].target`](../reference/action-types/Deploy/helm#spec.sync.overrides-.target) and [`spec.sync.paths[].target`](../reference/action-types/Deploy/helm#spec.sync.paths-.target).

<h2 id="containerdeployactionhostport"><code>spec.ports[].hostPort</code> configuration field in <code>container</code> Deploy action</h2>

It's generally not recommended to use the `hostPort` field of the `V1ContainerPort` spec. You can learn more about Kubernetes best practices at: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/overview/