docs/reference/providers/terraform.md, before:

---
title: "`terraform` Provider"
tocTitle: "`terraform`"
---

# `terraform` Provider

## Description

This provider allows you to integrate Terraform stacks into your Garden project. See the [Terraform guide](https://docs.garden.io/cedar-0.14/advanced/terraform) for details and usage information.

Below is the full schema reference for the provider configuration..

The reference is divided into two sections. The [first section](#complete-yaml-schema) contains the complete YAML schema, and the [second section](#configuration-keys) describes each schema key.

## Complete YAML Schema

The values in the schema below are the default values.

```yaml
providers:
  - # The name of the provider plugin to use.
    name:

    # List other providers that should be resolved before this one.
    dependencies: []

    # If specified, this provider will only be used in the listed environments. Note that an empty array effectively
    # disables the provider. To use a provider in all environments, omit this field.
    environments:

    # If set to true, Garden will run `terraform destroy` on the project root stack when calling `garden delete env`.
    allowDestroy: false

    # If set to true, Garden will automatically run `terraform apply -auto-approve` when a stack is not up-to-date.
    # Otherwise, a warning is logged if the stack is out-of-date, and an error thrown if it is missing entirely.
    #
    # **Note: This is not recommended for production, or shared environments in general!**
    autoApply: false

    # Specify the path to a Terraform config directory, that should be resolved when initializing the provider. This
    # is useful when other providers need to be able to reference the outputs from the stack.
    #
    # See the [Terraform guide](https://docs.garden.io/cedar-0.14/advanced/terraform) for more information.
    initRoot:

    # A map of variables to use when applying Terraform stacks. You can define these here, in individual
    # `terraform` action configs, or you can place a `terraform.tfvars` file in each working directory.
    variables:

    # The version of Terraform to use. Set to `null` to use whichever version of `terraform` that is on your PATH.
    version: 1.4.6

    # Use the specified Terraform workspace.
    workspace:

    # Set to `true` to make logs from Terraform Deploy actions visible in Garden Cloud/Enterprise. Defaults to `false`
    streamLogsToCloud: false

    # Configure the Terraform backend.
    #
    # The key-value pairs defined here are set as the `-backend-config` options when Garden
    # runs `terraform init`.
    #
    # This can be used to dynamically set a Terraform backend depending on the environment.
    #
    # If Garden sees that the backend has changes, it'll re-initialize Terraform and set the new values.
    backendConfig:
```
## Configuration Keys

### `providers[]`

| Type            | Default | Required |
| --------------- | ------- | -------- |
| `array[object]` | `[]`    | No       |

### `providers[].name`

[providers](#providers) > name

The name of the provider plugin to use.

| Type     | Required |
| -------- | -------- |
| `string` | Yes      |

Example:

```yaml
providers:
  - name: "local-kubernetes"
```

### `providers[].dependencies[]`

[providers](#providers) > dependencies

List other providers that should be resolved before this one.

| Type            | Default | Required |
| --------------- | ------- | -------- |
| `array[string]` | `[]`    | No       |

Example:

```yaml
providers:
  - dependencies:
      - exec
```

### `providers[].environments[]`

[providers](#providers) > environments

If specified, this provider will only be used in the listed environments. Note that an empty array effectively disables the provider. To use a provider in all environments, omit this field.

| Type            | Required |
| --------------- | -------- |
| `array[string]` | No       |

Example:

```yaml
providers:
  - environments:
      - dev
      - stage
```

### `providers[].allowDestroy`

[providers](#providers) > allowDestroy

If set to true, Garden will run `terraform destroy` on the project root stack when calling `garden delete env`.

| Type      | Default | Required |
| --------- | ------- | -------- |
| `boolean` | `false` | No       |

### `providers[].autoApply`

[providers](#providers) > autoApply

If set to true, Garden will automatically run `terraform apply -auto-approve` when a stack is not up-to-date. Otherwise, a warning is logged if the stack is out-of-date, and an error thrown if it is missing entirely.

**Note: This is not recommended for production, or shared environments in general!**

| Type      | Default | Required |
| --------- | ------- | -------- |
| `boolean` | `false` | No       |

### `providers[].initRoot`

[providers](#providers) > initRoot

Specify the path to a Terraform config directory, that should be resolved when initializing the provider. This is useful when other providers need to be able to reference the outputs from the stack.

See the [Terraform guide](https://docs.garden.io/cedar-0.14/advanced/terraform) for more information.

| Type        | Required |
| ----------- | -------- |
| `posixPath` | No       |

### `providers[].variables`

[providers](#providers) > variables

A map of variables to use when applying Terraform stacks. You can define these here, in individual
`terraform` action configs, or you can place a `terraform.tfvars` file in each working directory.

| Type     | Required |
| -------- | -------- |
| `object` | No       |

### `providers[].version`

[providers](#providers) > version

The version of Terraform to use. Set to `null` to use whichever version of `terraform` that is on your PATH.

| Type     | Allowed Values                                                 | Default   | Required |
| -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- | -------- |
| `string` | "0.12.26", "0.13.3", "0.14.7", "1.0.5", "1.2.9", "1.4.6", null | `"1.4.6"` | Yes      |

### `providers[].workspace`

[providers](#providers) > workspace

Use the specified Terraform workspace.

| Type     | Required |
| -------- | -------- |
| `string` | No       |

### `providers[].streamLogsToCloud`

[providers](#providers) > streamLogsToCloud

Set to `true` to make logs from Terraform Deploy actions visible in Garden Cloud/Enterprise. Defaults to `false`

| Type      | Default | Required |
| --------- | ------- | -------- |
| `boolean` | `false` | No       |

### `providers[].backendConfig`

[providers](#providers) > backendConfig

Configure the Terraform backend.

The key-value pairs defined here are set as the `-backend-config` options when Garden
runs `terraform init`.

This can be used to dynamically set a Terraform backend depending on the environment.

If Garden sees that the backend has changes, it'll re-initialize Terraform and set the new values.

| Type     | Required |
| -------- | -------- |
| `object` | No       |

Example:

```yaml
providers:
  - backendConfig:
        bucket: ${environment.name}-bucket
        key: tf-state/${local.username}/terraform.tfstate
```

Commit message:

feat: add preInit.runScript option for all providers (#7458)

docs/reference/providers/terraform.md, after:

---
title: "`terraform` Provider"
tocTitle: "`terraform`"
---

# `terraform` Provider

## Description

This provider allows you to integrate Terraform stacks into your Garden project. See the [Terraform guide](https://docs.garden.io/cedar-0.14/advanced/terraform) for details and usage information.

Below is the full schema reference for the provider configuration..

The reference is divided into two sections. The [first section](#complete-yaml-schema) contains the complete YAML schema, and the [second section](#configuration-keys) describes each schema key.

## Complete YAML Schema

The values in the schema below are the default values.

```yaml
providers:
  - # The name of the provider plugin to use.
    name:

    # List other providers that should be resolved before this one.
    dependencies: []

    # If specified, this provider will only be used in the listed environments. Note that an empty array effectively
    # disables the provider. To use a provider in all environments, omit this field.
    environments:

    preInit:
      # A script to run before the provider is initialized. This is useful for performing any provider-specific setup
      # outside of Garden. For example, you can use this to perform authentication, such as authenticating with a
      # Kubernetes cluster provider.
      # The script will always be run from the project root directory.
      # Note that provider statuses are cached, so this script will generally only be run once, but you can force a
      # re-run by setting `--force-refresh` on any Garden command that uses the provider.
      runScript:

    # If set to true, Garden will run `terraform destroy` on the project root stack when calling `garden delete env`.
    allowDestroy: false

    # If set to true, Garden will automatically run `terraform apply -auto-approve` when a stack is not up-to-date.
    # Otherwise, a warning is logged if the stack is out-of-date, and an error thrown if it is missing entirely.
    #
    # **Note: This is not recommended for production, or shared environments in general!**
    autoApply: false

    # Specify the path to a Terraform config directory, that should be resolved when initializing the provider. This
    # is useful when other providers need to be able to reference the outputs from the stack.
    #
    # See the [Terraform guide](https://docs.garden.io/cedar-0.14/advanced/terraform) for more information.
    initRoot:

    # A map of variables to use when applying Terraform stacks. You can define these here, in individual
    # `terraform` action configs, or you can place a `terraform.tfvars` file in each working directory.
    variables:

    # The version of Terraform to use. Set to `null` to use whichever version of `terraform` that is on your PATH.
    version: 1.4.6

    # Use the specified Terraform workspace.
    workspace:

    # Set to `true` to make logs from Terraform Deploy actions visible in Garden Cloud/Enterprise. Defaults to `false`
    streamLogsToCloud: false

    # Configure the Terraform backend.
    #
    # The key-value pairs defined here are set as the `-backend-config` options when Garden
    # runs `terraform init`.
    #
    # This can be used to dynamically set a Terraform backend depending on the environment.
    #
    # If Garden sees that the backend has changes, it'll re-initialize Terraform and set the new values.
    backendConfig:
```
## Configuration Keys

### `providers[]`

| Type            | Default | Required |
| --------------- | ------- | -------- |
| `array[object]` | `[]`    | No       |

### `providers[].name`

[providers](#providers) > name

The name of the provider plugin to use.

| Type     | Required |
| -------- | -------- |
| `string` | Yes      |

Example:

```yaml
providers:
  - name: "local-kubernetes"
```

### `providers[].dependencies[]`

[providers](#providers) > dependencies

List other providers that should be resolved before this one.

| Type            | Default | Required |
| --------------- | ------- | -------- |
| `array[string]` | `[]`    | No       |

Example:

```yaml
providers:
  - dependencies:
      - exec
```

### `providers[].environments[]`

[providers](#providers) > environments

If specified, this provider will only be used in the listed environments. Note that an empty array effectively disables the provider. To use a provider in all environments, omit this field.

| Type            | Required |
| --------------- | -------- |
| `array[string]` | No       |

Example:

```yaml
providers:
  - environments:
      - dev
      - stage
```

### `providers[].preInit`

[providers](#providers) > preInit

| Type     | Required |
| -------- | -------- |
| `object` | No       |

### `providers[].preInit.runScript`

[providers](#providers) > [preInit](#providerspreinit) > runScript

A script to run before the provider is initialized. This is useful for performing any provider-specific setup outside of Garden. For example, you can use this to perform authentication, such as authenticating with a Kubernetes cluster provider.
The script will always be run from the project root directory.
Note that provider statuses are cached, so this script will generally only be run once, but you can force a re-run by setting `--force-refresh` on any Garden command that uses the provider.

| Type     | Required |
| -------- | -------- |
| `string` | No       |

### `providers[].allowDestroy`

[providers](#providers) > allowDestroy

If set to true, Garden will run `terraform destroy` on the project root stack when calling `garden delete env`.

| Type      | Default | Required |
| --------- | ------- | -------- |
| `boolean` | `false` | No       |

### `providers[].autoApply`

[providers](#providers) > autoApply

If set to true, Garden will automatically run `terraform apply -auto-approve` when a stack is not up-to-date. Otherwise, a warning is logged if the stack is out-of-date, and an error thrown if it is missing entirely.

**Note: This is not recommended for production, or shared environments in general!**

| Type      | Default | Required |
| --------- | ------- | -------- |
| `boolean` | `false` | No       |

### `providers[].initRoot`

[providers](#providers) > initRoot

Specify the path to a Terraform config directory, that should be resolved when initializing the provider. This is useful when other providers need to be able to reference the outputs from the stack.

See the [Terraform guide](https://docs.garden.io/cedar-0.14/advanced/terraform) for more information.

| Type        | Required |
| ----------- | -------- |
| `posixPath` | No       |

### `providers[].variables`

[providers](#providers) > variables

A map of variables to use when applying Terraform stacks. You can define these here, in individual
`terraform` action configs, or you can place a `terraform.tfvars` file in each working directory.

| Type     | Required |
| -------- | -------- |
| `object` | No       |

### `providers[].version`

[providers](#providers) > version

The version of Terraform to use. Set to `null` to use whichever version of `terraform` that is on your PATH.

| Type     | Allowed Values                                                 | Default   | Required |
| -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- | -------- |
| `string` | "0.12.26", "0.13.3", "0.14.7", "1.0.5", "1.2.9", "1.4.6", null | `"1.4.6"` | Yes      |

### `providers[].workspace`

[providers](#providers) > workspace

Use the specified Terraform workspace.

| Type     | Required |
| -------- | -------- |
| `string` | No       |

### `providers[].streamLogsToCloud`

[providers](#providers) > streamLogsToCloud

Set to `true` to make logs from Terraform Deploy actions visible in Garden Cloud/Enterprise. Defaults to `false`

| Type      | Default | Required |
| --------- | ------- | -------- |
| `boolean` | `false` | No       |

### `providers[].backendConfig`

[providers](#providers) > backendConfig

Configure the Terraform backend.

The key-value pairs defined here are set as the `-backend-config` options when Garden
runs `terraform init`.

This can be used to dynamically set a Terraform backend depending on the environment.

If Garden sees that the backend has changes, it'll re-initialize Terraform and set the new values.

| Type     | Required |
| -------- | -------- |
| `object` | No       |

Example:

```yaml
providers:
  - backendConfig:
        bucket: ${environment.name}-bucket
        key: tf-state/${local.username}/terraform.tfstate
```
